Maisie Varcoe                   

27 Clifton Street
Brighton, BN1 3PH

Charlotte Rawlinson
Watson Building
University of Brighton
Falmer, Brighton
BN1 9PH

1st April 2025

Dear Charlotte Rawlinson, 

RE: 40343, Research Assistant 

I am applying for the Research Assistant     fhfjijdis role at Brighton and Sussex Medical School. I graduated in 2024 with a 2:1 in Biochemistry from the University of Bristol and I believe my various employment experiences, excellent academic history and life experience would enable me to be an excellent Research Assistant. The project particularly appeals to me because I believe the hope-based intervention therapy could be incredibly supportive and potentially life-changing for NEET young women.

Good Presentation, Communication Skills and Experience Working on Large Education Research Projects 

I have great written and oral communication skills to engage with a variety of audiences. I am comfortable presenting and have presented my own research to an academic conference, as well as various times to peers at university. When presenting, I am confident and clear, adapting my information to suit different audiences. I am adept at producing clear presentation slides.

I have worked on large education research projects. For explore the majority of the final year of my degree was spent on a research project about decolonising and diversifying the Biochemistry curriculum, which I achieved a high first in. This included reviewing the diversity and inclusivity of modules and statistically analysing survey data of 115 participants using IBM SPSS to assess staff and student attitudes and understanding of decolonisation and diversification, comparing results across years. It also included statistical analysis of data from another survey of 145 students who had participated in a novel workshop on equality and inequality in science to see if the workshop was worthwhile.

My results from this workshop data analysis are being included in a forthcoming paper which I am contributing to and will be cited as an author. Alongside the other authors, I also presented my research at the Bristol Institute for Learning and Teaching Conference in July 2024 to an audience of 50-100 people. I also participated as a student voice in the UCL conference ‘Increasing Engagement in Large Biomolecular Science Cohorts: What Works?’ in July 2024, where we discussed challenges of large cohorts in biomolecular sciences with course leaders from a variety of UK universities. 


I am also skilled at written work, with the ability to write clearly and concisely. I often achieved highly in essays at university, for instance for an essay about the Hallmarks of Cancer I achieved 89%. I am excellent at portraying information clearly and succinctly, adapting to a variety of audiences. 

Strong Organisational Skills, Task-Prioritisation, Independence and Teamwork 

I have great organisation skills which have been honed during university where I had to manage my time effectively and proactively. I am excellent at task prioritisation, multitasking and self-motivation, as much of my work and lectures were online due to COVID-19. I have experience balancing a job alongside university studies, which progressed my time management, ability to hit deadlines and independence. I have also progressed my organisational skills from working at Hotel Chocolat, where my responsibilities include briefing the team, managing emails/phone calls, writing daily floorplans and supervising the open/close of the store. 
 
Other than working well independently, I am also a great team player, listener and communicator with good interpersonal skills, being easy to get along with. I have experience working in teams and following team leaders during university group projects and workplaces. For instance during university I worked as part of a team of six to write a grant proposal for investigating the human homolog of Q22MS1 in ciliary formation. We collaboratively researched and divided work between us - then read and edited the final paper together. We presented this work in front of peers and lecturers and received a high grade. My role at Hotel Chocolat puts emphasis on great customer service, I calmly deal with sometimes difficult customer situations and am easily able to make connections with a wide variety of people. I am able to take and implement guidance from my manager. I am looking to further progress my organisation, time management and teamwork skills at Brighton and Sussex Medical School.

Excellent IT Skills

I have good IT skills, with practice in all programmes of the Microsoft Office package. I am also skilled in statistical and biological computational analysis programmes such as IBM SPSS and GraphPad Prism for statistical analysis and graphing of data and BLAST for comparison of sequences in DNA, RNA or proteins. In my current role I manage computer software related to our store inventory and administration. I am a quick learned and enjoy learning new technologies, for example, I am currently learning Python programming through a self-directed course. 

Innovation and Problem-Solving

I work well with others and enjoy discussing challenges and exploring different approaches. I believe I have good innovative and creative problem-solving skills and can think laterally about issues. 

In a team situation I am likely to offer a few different skills depending on my group members, sometimes I will take on team leader role - which my personal tutor said I did during some of our first tutor group meetings. I likely will try to include everyone, trying to gather the groups ideas, determine knowledge and experience in the subject area of discussion. I like to suggest approaches to test out with the group, making sure everyones’s opinions are considered while trying to push the group forward to a shared goal. 

I also have great individual problem-solving skills. I completed college during COVID-19, with all of my work online and lots of uncertainty to navigate, learning how to motivate myself and direct my own workload. This was progressed during university, much of which was also online due to the pandemic. 

I am currently undertaking a self-led online Python course which involves applying problem solving techniques to coding problems. I have to break down complex problems while thinking logically, to create smaller tasks and write software. Lots of debugging is also required, identifying a problem, what went wrong and testing different solutions to fix it. 

Understanding of Randomised Controlled Trial Methodology

During university I studied a module called Biomedical Research, Employability and Enterprise Skills (BREES), worth 20 credits, where I learned a lot about statistical methodology, including details of randomised controlled trials. I achieved a first in this module. I also completed a GCSE in Statistics where I learned about this too. It is a form of clinical trial in which participants are randomly assigned to different groups, an experimental and control - these can be double- or single-blind or open-label. It can help remove biases during research of cause-effect relationships. I feel I have a good understanding of how this type of trial works and the importance of various aspects to be carefully controlled to produce accurate results. 

Personal Experience Supporting Vulnerable Young People

I have some personal experience supporting vulnerable young people and have also worked with young people in caring roles in the past. 

Throughout university I supported a close friend who has Borderline Personality Disorder and has struggled with various addiction problems. I am one of two key people she relied on during that period, particularly in moments of crisis, which included several suicide attempts. I engaged with NHS and University mental health and wellbeing services alongside her and sometimes on her behalf. I provided personal and practical support to her, giving me detailed insight into the challenges faced by someone managing poor mental health and addiction issues. 

I learned a lot from this relationship, including the need to set boundaries and look after my own health and wellbeing. We remain good friends and I believe my approach to supporting her, including clear communication and boundary setting, has helped her to trust me and enable us top achieve a healthy balance in our relationship. 

I have a fairly broad personal knowledge of metal conditions and trauma, which I believe gives me insight into approaches when supporting vulnerable young women. I can quickly build rapport with a. Variety of individuals, including young people, as demonstrated through my current role and through various babysitting roles in the past. \

I am generally very perceptive to other people, I am good at reading body language, and other signs and acting accordingly. For instance, I currently work in a small team where I am good at gauging when a colleague is feeling uncomfortable or vulnerable with a customer and I offer support if they seem to need a break. 

I am excited about the opportunity to work for the Brighton and Sussex Medical School and believe I would be a great fit for the role. I would be available to start work immediately on a part-time or full-time basis from the beginning of May. I look forward to hearing from you. 

Yours sincerely,
Maisie Varcoe

I am applying for the Research Assistant role at Brighton and Sussex Medical School. I graduated in 2024 with a 2:1 in Biochemistry from the University of Bristol and I believe my various employment experiences, excellent academic history and life experience would enable me to be an excellent Research Assistant. The project particularly appeals to me because I believe the hope-based intervention therapy could be incredibly supportive and potentially life-changing for NEET young women. I believe I have the right aptitude for the mix of responsibilites in the role to support this project.

Good Presentation, Communication Skills and Experience Working on Large Education Research Projects 

I have strong written and oral communication skills to engage with a variety of audiences. I am comfortable presenting and have presented my own research to an academic conference, as well as various times to peers at university. When presenting, I am confident and clear, adapting my information to suit different audiences. I am adept at producing clear presentation slides.

I have worked on large education research projects. For example, the majority of the final year of my degree was spent on a research project about decolonising and diversifying the Biochemistry curriculum, which I achieved a high first in. This included reviewing the diversity and inclusivity of modules and statistically analysing survey data of 115 participants using IBM SPSS to assess staff and student attitudes and understanding of decolonisation and diversification, comparing results across years. It also included statistical analysis of data from another survey of 145 students who had participated in a novel workshop on equality and inequality in science to see if the workshop was worthwhile. My results from this workshop data analysis are being included in a forthcoming paper which I am contributing to and will be cited as an author. Alongside the other authors, I also presented my research at the Bristol Institute for Learning and Teaching Conference in July 2024 to an audience of 50-100 people. I also participated as a student voice in the UCL conference ‘Increasing Engagement in Large Biomolecular Science Cohorts: What Works?’ in July 2024, where we discussed challenges of large cohorts in biomolecular sciences with course leaders from a variety of UK universities. 

I am also skilled at written work, with the ability to write clearly and concisely. I often achieved highly in essays at university, for instance for an essay about the Hallmarks of Cancer I achieved 89%. I am excellent at portraying information clearly and succinctly, adapting to a variety of audiences. 

Strong Organisational Skills, Task-Prioritisation, Independence and Teamwork 

I have great organisation skills which have been honed during university where I had to manage my time effectively and proactively. I am excellent at task prioritisation, multitasking and self-motivation, as much of my work and lectures were online due to COVID-19. I have experience balancing a job alongside university studies, which progressed my time management, ability to hit deadlines and independence. I have also progressed my organisational skills from working at Hotel Chocolat, where my responsibilities include briefing the team, managing emails/phone calls, writing daily floorplans and supervising the open/close of the store. 
 
Other than working well independently, I am also a great team player, listener and communicator with good interpersonal skills, being easy to get along with. I have experience working in teams and following team leaders during university group projects and workplaces. For instance during university I worked as part of a team of six to write a grant proposal for investigating the human homolog of Q22MS1 in ciliary formation. We collaboratively researched and divided work between us - then read and edited the final paper together. We presented this work in front of peers and lecturers and received a high grade. My role at Hotel Chocolat puts emphasis on great customer service. I calmly deal with sometimes difficult customer situations and am easily able to make connections with a wide variety of people. I am able to take and implement guidance from my manager. I am looking to further progress my organisation, time management and teamwork skills at Brighton and Sussex Medical School.

Excellent IT Skills, Innovation and Problem-Solving

I work well with others and enjoy discussing challenges and exploring different approaches. I believe I have good innovative and creative problem-solving skills, thinking laterally about issues and have good IT skills, with practice in all programmes of the Microsoft Office package. I am also skilled in statistical and biological computational analysis programmes such as IBM SPSS and GraphPad Prism for statistical analysis and graphing of data and BLAST for comparison of sequences in DNA, RNA or proteins. In my current role I manage computer software related to our store inventory and administration. I am a quick learner and enjoy learning new technologies, for example, I am currently undertaking a self-led online Python course which involves applying problem solving techniques to coding problems. I have to break down complex problems while thinking logically, to create smaller tasks and write software. Lots of debugging is also required, identifying a problem, what went wrong and testing different solutions to fix it. 

In a probelm-solving team situation I am likely to offer a few different skills depending on my group members, sometimes I will take on a team leader role - which my personal tutor said I did from our first tutor group meetings. I likely will try to include everyone, trying to gather the group's ideas, and determine knowledge and experience in the subject area of discussion. I like to suggest approaches to test out with the group, making sure everyone’s opinions are considered while trying to push the group forward to a shared goal. I also have great individual problem-solving skills. I completed college during COVID-19, with all of my work online and lots of uncertainty to navigate, learning how to motivate myself and direct my own workload. This was progressed during university, much of which was also online due to the pandemic. 

Understanding of Randomised Controlled Trial Methodology

During university I studied a module called Biomedical Research, Employability and Enterprise Skills (BREES), worth 20 credits, where I learned a lot about statistical methodology, including details of randomised controlled trials. I achieved a first in this module. I also completed a GCSE in Statistics where I learned about this too. I feel I have a good understanding of how reandomised controlled trial methodology works and the importance of various aspects to be carefully controlled to produce accurate results and remove biases during research of cause-effect relationships. 

Personal Experience Supporting Vulnerable Young People

I have some personal experience supporting vulnerable young people and have also worked with young people in caring roles in the past. Throughout university I supported a close friend who has Borderline Personality Disorder and has struggled with various addiction problems. I am one of two key people she relied on during that period, particularly in moments of crisis, which included several suicide attempts. I engaged with NHS and University mental health and wellbeing services alongside her and sometimes on her behalf. I provided personal and practical support to her, giving me detailed insight into the challenges faced by someone managing poor mental health and addiction issues. 

I learned a lot from this relationship, including the need to set boundaries and look after my own health and wellbeing. We remain good friends and I believe my approach to supporting her, including clear communication and boundary setting, has helped her to trust me and enable us to achieve a healthy balance in our relationship. 

I have a fairly broad personal knowledge of metal conditions and trauma, which I believe gives me insight into approaches when supporting vulnerable young women. I can quickly build rapport with a variety of individuals, including young people, as demonstrated through my current role and through various babysitting roles in the past. I am generally very perceptive of other people, I am good at reading body language, and other signs and acting accordingly. For instance, I currently work in a small team where I am good at gauging when a colleague is feeling uncomfortable or vulnerable with a customer and I offer support if they seem to need a break. 

I am excited about the opportunity to work for the Brighton and Sussex Medical School and believe I would be a great fit for the role. I would be available to start work immediately part-time or on a full-time basis from the beginning of May. I look forward to hearing from you. 
